It is difficult to meditate as an exotic status and then it is important to start with shamatha.
Shamatha should do that more, even in one session of the practices.
At the beginning of the session, for example, start with bodhicapa, start with devotion,
start with all this as you have time, and then with the Kundal practices, all guru yoga practices.
After that, do short meditation, do shamatha meditations.
When you have the shamatha, stabilise your mind more and then go to the Dzogic state of the mind.
That means, shamatha, you are going to hold something, you are going to concentrate on something.
You are going to stay with that concentrated object and that is supported.
That means the mind is anchored to that concentrated object.
When you are a little bit more stabilising your mind or your mind at that time,
then release that object of concentration and go to the Dzogic meditation.
That is more practical and more stable.
If you are a little bit younger, you will be able to concentrate on something.
When you meditate, you will concentrate on shamatha meditations.
In any case, even your concentrated object is that kind of concentrated object.
In any case, you can't concentrate. You sometimes can feel, "Oh, I can do meditation.
I think meditation is not going to happen to me. You can be tired, you can be bored."
That even can happen because the mind is so agitated or so active.
Even if that happens, you shouldn't feel bad with that.
That is the first time we are noticing or individualism noticing how mind is restless.
Our mind may be like that all the time, but we never notice it.
Notice that now because of the concentration, we are noticing.
Therefore, we don't have to feel bad about that.
This is what we need this time.
At that time, we need more courage, more confidence, more joy, more bodhicata, more devotion.
See, this is precious. This is all precious, so special.
"I have to do this. I am going to do this."
This is all so special.
Again applying some review of those renomences and put the renomences and those teachings
or looking to the nugget nature of this phenomenal existence,
reactivate our courage and commitment and do continually meditate.
Again, when you meditate and concentrate, such as now we are talking shamatha,
shamatha little bit of shamatha meditation.
Again, in some cases, mind is running so much, running with junk.
Those who are generally in the meditation instructions say
it is a sign of the slow down of our mind.
Even it looks like running so fast, it is slowing down.
Therefore, in the teaching here, the renomencer says
there are five different stages that we go through.
This is also the famous instruction of the great doki master, Umar Mater,
that he also go here. This is his teaching.
There are five stages of the experience we feel during our
like some other meditation or meditation.